None of us like being told lies, but we are constantly bombarded with false stories.
If we are not careful, they could harm us.
Today we are going, therefore, to develop the theme, protect yourself from lies.
We will answer three questions.
What lies must be protect ourselves from?
Why are those lies dangerous?
And how can we protect ourselves from lies?
Let us start with the first question.
What lies must be protect ourselves from?
The lies we want to talk about today are often called false news, fake news,
misinformation or false information.
Today we are experiencing an avalanche of misinformation.
For example, there is so much misinformation out there about the COVID-19 pandemic.
But these lies deal with the origin of the virus,
unproven prevention and cures.
They include responses by governments, companies, celebrities and others.
Now common to misinformation is their sensational nature.
They are created to be widely shared in order to generate revenue,
or they are promoting or discrediting a public figure,
a political movement, the company, et cetera.
Now, we often find those false or fake news in social media.
But we also find them in the established news media.
In many countries, people know exactly what newspaper or TV station
distorts the truth in the one or in the other direction.
And yet, misinformation of this kind has been in existence throughout history.
Let's look at one example that we find in 2nd Kings chapter 18.
At one point, King Hezekiah was confronted with propaganda by Assyrian messengers.
What were the elements of their misinformation?
Let's look at the first element that we find in 2nd Kings 18, verse 21.
Here we find an outright lie.
We read.
Look, you trust in the support of this crushed read Egypt,
which ever man should lean on it would enter into his palm and pierce it.
This was a lie.
For Hezekiah had not made an alliance with Egypt.
Now, let's look at element number 2.
We find it in verse 22 and 25.
After stating that Hezekiah had removed Jehovah's High Places and Altars in verse 22,
this is what we read in verse 25.
Now is it without authorization from Jehovah that I have come against this place to destroy it?
Jehovah himself said to me, go up against this land and destroy it.
So element number 2 is cunning reasoning.
We find bits of truthful information that were suddenly diffused with lies.
The message was, Jehovah would not act in behalf of his people because he was displeased with them.
Yet the opposite was true.
Jehovah was very happy with his people because they had returned to true worship.
Now what is element number 3?
We find it in verse 31.
Here we see lies that are presented in a way of an easy solution with tempting rewards.
Let's be read in verse 31, in the middle, starting there,
make peace with me and surrender.
And each one of you will eat from his own vine and from his own victory and will drink the water of his own sister.
Surrender was presented as an easy solution in connection with empty rewards.
The prospect of eating fresh bread and drinking new wine must have been tempting to those in lockdown.
However, did the Assyrians ever treat their enemies kindly?
No, never.
That brings us to our second question.
Why are those lies dangerous?
Well, in Hisakaya's day, the propaganda was supposed to lead the Jews in making a bad decision.
A decision that could have caused their lives today.
To making a bad decision would be the result of trusting in false or fake news.
This is dangerous.
In this time of the pandemic, this can have an effect on our health and our life.
We can react to other propaganda that can create the financial losses or can result in other negative consequences.
But there is even more at stake.
Lies destroy trust.
They create doubts and they can undermine our life-saving determination to follow Jehovah's direction.
For example, we are determined to respect governments and their laws in harmony with Romans 13.
Now, the news often presents politics, politicians, state institutions in a bad light.
Sometimes we are confronted with outright lies, with cunning reasoning, or easy solutions with empty promises.
Please, let's be on the watch.
This can weaken our determination to be faithful to Jehovah by obeying the superior authorities and displaying Christian neutrality.
Another example.
Misinformation about Jehovah's organization and the governing body.
Jehovah's witnesses have been accused of promoting communism, while others claim that we promote the ideals and interests of American imperialism.
Our brothers and sisters have been called anarchists, and nowadays we are being called extremists, and the list can go on.
What will be the next lie?
Remember, lies create doubts and destroy trust.
Some of what we can hear and read is based on misinformation campaigns of apostates.
It may sound convincing, even to us.
Even if we now say, I will not believe it anyway, I'm just curious to know what it is.
Exposing ourselves to this kind of misinformation can create doubts and undermine our complete trust in the governing body.
This makes us vulnerable. Jehovah will use his organization to lead us through the great repulation.
There is just no other way to succeed.
That brings us to our third question, how can we protect ourselves from those lies?
Now, we can protect ourselves from those lies by limiting our exposure to misinformation.
Therefore, we need to look at the quality and the quantity of the information we take in, the quality.
We want to pick the most reliable source of information, quantity.
To stay up to date with world events, we do not need to update us every hour.
Therefore, let us set a personal time limit and then stick to it.
What else can we do?
Proverbs 14 verse 15 says, the naive person believes every word, but the shrewd one ponders each step.
So the key is to have a healthy skepticism while keeping an open mind.
Or we read in Job 12 verse 11, does not the ear test out words as the tongue tastes food?
So before reacting quickly on something we hear or read, we want to test out words.
Let us look for solid confirmation.
We want to compare what we read in the Bible and what we learn from the Bible.
What Bible principles apply? Is there any guidance from the organization?
And when it comes to news about Jehovah's organization, we can expect more lies to be spread as we get closer to Jehovah's Day.
Let us therefore strengthen our trust today.
The good guidance from Jehovah's organization during this pandemic is just another proof that Jehovah is with the governing body.
So our theme was, protect yourself from lies.
We discussed the danger of misinformation in its different forms, outright lies, cunning reasoning and empty promises.
Lies destroy trust.
Therefore, let us limit our exposure to these lies and strengthen our trust in Jehovah in this organization today.
This will prepare us for one of the greatest lies in the very near future.
Peace and security.
And remember, this will be fake news and many, most people will believe in it.